[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Omega is a place for people
to deal with the experience
of life.
>> Come home to themselves.
>> Secrets of all kinds--
>> A spiritual community--
>> All paths meet.
>> A house with many rooms--
>> It's a ticket into
the spirituality.
>> Spirit of
holistic education--
>> Kindred spirit--
>> Get a sense of what it
would be like to really be
themselves.
>> Retreats have
always been important.
>> Learning environment--
>> Omega is a great gift.
>> You're always
going to the desert.
>> It's hundreds of
thousands of seekers.
>> Tool for unity--
>> You always retreat.
>> Refuge in the 21st Century--
>> I'm an independent
filmmaker from Toronto, Canada.
And I would say that the
last three years of my life
have been an exceptional
journey for me.
It's been like being in the
front seat of a roller coaster
at Canada's Wonderland,
you know, where I'm just,
like, holding on for
my life to the bar.
And it's been like up the hill,
you know, like, ah, ah, ah!
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It all started when I was on
a trip in Southern California.
On the winter solstice,
I was driving up
to a Tibetan monastery,
Karma Mahasiddha Ling,
high in the mountains
in Idyllwild,
which is in the high
desert above Palm Springs.
And I had the windows rolled
down in my Jeep Cherokee.
And I'm singing, and
chanting, and praying.
My religious practice
is Tibetan Buddhist,
so I was doing this Tibetan
chant to Holy Mother Tara, Om
Tare Tuttare Ture Svaha.
I had a very happy mind.
I was going up to
morning prayers.
And this is this
very remote road
that winds up about 14,000
feet from the desert floor.
And there's no guardrail.
And the road is along the
outside of the mountain.
And the monastery is right
at the top of the mountain.
And as I'm driving up-- it's,
like, 9 AM in the morning--
there's this woman standing
at the side of the road.
And I thought she looked cold.
She had a cloth coat on,
a very thin cloth coat.
And I knew if I
stopped to pick her up,
I'd miss the morning
prayers, but something in me
told me to pick her up.
So I picked her up.
And apparently, she was a
house keeper in the desert.
She had missed her last
bus up the mountain.
And her children had
stayed alone for the night.
And I felt very
troubled for her,
so I made a point of bringing
her directly to her home.
And while we were
driving, she said to me,
don't drive off the cliff today.
And I grew up in snow
storms in Northern Ontario.
I got my driver's
license in a snow storm.
And I've driven in icy
conditions, in whiteouts,
you know, for over 25 years.
And so I said, you know,
no, don't worry about me.
I'll be fine.
You know, like, and
this is the desert.
You know, what can
possibly happen?
So I brought her to her
house and dropped her off.
And she peered in the window.
And again she said, don't
drive off the cliff today.
And she looked me
directly in the eyes.
And I said no, no, no, I'm fine.
You know, don't worry about it.
So I'm driving up.
I went around another corner.
And it started to snow,
because, of course,
I'm moving up through the
elevation very quickly.
And I had my shorts
and a top on.
It gets colder and colder.
I rolled up my windows.
The snow started hitting
the windshield furiously.
It turned to hail.
I went into four-wheel drive.
I'm being very careful.
I round a corner and the Jeep
goes out of control right out
from under me and starts rolling
over the side of the cliff.
And I just thought,
I'm going to die today.
You know, like, I'm on my
way to Tibetan prayers.
And I'm going to die today.
The only thing I could think
of doing from my meditation
practice was to call out--
in Tibetan prayers, you
call it refuge, call
to the holy mother, Om Tare
Tuttare Ture Svaha, which,
the translation from Sanskrit
is, Holy Mother, please
come to my aid.
As I called that out, the
thought occurred to me,
oh my god, they're going
to telephone my mother
and tell her that
I've died today.
And I just felt so much
grief in my heart and pain
for my mother to get this
phone call, thinking,
this would kill her.
And I just called out
to the Holy Mother
again in Sanskrit, Om
Tare Tuttare Ture Svaha.
And my Jeep stopped
halfway down the mountain,
upside down on a stone.
A large boulder had
stopped the Jeep.
And I was pinned in it.
The hood of the car
was ripped totally off.
The ceiling was caved in.
I couldn't undo the seat
belt. It was still in drive,
but the car was
completely turned off.
And I didn't know
if I was paralyzed.
I didn't know what had happened.
So I pinched myself.
And I could feel everything.
I felt OK.
And I was just so thankful.
So I managed to push myself up
somehow against the ceiling,
and undo the seat belt,
and drop upside down.
And the hood of the car was
in a very precarious position.
So I managed to crawl
out of the broken glass
and start crawling
up the mountain.
And there was some kind of
forest fire station up there.
And this man had seen
me go over the cliff
in his rear-view mirror.
And he had a CB radio
or a cell phone,
and called for an ambulance.
And I was totally in shock.
So move fast forward to--
I was, you know,
went to the hospital.
I broke several ribs
and fractured them,
injured my neck, my low back,
had glass shards in my arms,
my face, my legs.
I returned back to
Toronto, Canada.
And I was in terrible pain
and had a very difficult time
healing from the broken ribs.
And the whole year of 1998,
I was in terrible suffering.
I went to the Roman
Catholic Church.
And I lit a candle
to the Virgin Mary.
And I prayed for some
kind of guidance.
Like, what is this about?
Is my life as it was over?
I had been very active as a
documentary filmmaker doing
social justice issues.
And I was not able
to be a vital part
of the community due to constant
physical and emotional pain.
And I was feeling more and
more depressed and frustrated,
like my life was over.
My religion that I was born
into was Roman Catholic.
And my religion of
choice as an adult
has been Tibetan Buddhism.
So I lit a candle
to the Virgin Mary.
And I prayed very sincerely, you
know, what is this all about?
Please show me.
And I had a dream that night.
And in the dream, I saw
myself directing and producing
a live show of Rumi's poetry,
Mevlana Jelaluddin Rumi
is a Sufi poet from
the 13th Century.
And I was a little bit
familiar with his poetry.
I had a few of his
books, but he was not
a moving force in my life.
So this dream kept
on nagging at me.
And I wondered what
it was really about.
There were no other messages
that came to me at that time.
So I followed up.
And I called Coleman Barks, who
is one of the world's leading
translators of Rumi.
And I said, you know, I'm this
crazy independent filmmaker
from Toronto, Canada.
I tried to talk him
out of helping me out.
Or you know, I wanted
him to say, don't worry,
people have dreams like this all
the time, don't worry about it.
And he listened
to my whole story.
And then he said
to me, everybody's
got to follow their dream.
And I started
crying on the phone.
And I knew that I was being
called to do something.
And I wasn't quite sure where
it was going to take me.
So fast forward to
October 23, 1999,
which was my 44th
birthday, my birthday
present that year was to produce
and direct a live show of Rumi.
It was very successful.
I think we had 500 people on the
Friday night and the Saturday
night.
And people were just
raised to ecstatic heights
by the poetry of this
beautiful philosopher, Rumi.
After that, I showed
some of the footage
to a producer at
VisionTV in Canada.
And I received encouragement
from several people
to pursue a documentary
film about the work
and the philosophy of Rumi
at work in the world today.
And I noticed that,
during this process,
the medical doctors couldn't
do anything with me.
Painkillers didn't work.
I was in constant pain.
I had terrible anxiety
and mental stress.
And somewhere during this
process of producing the show,
the pain had
completely dropped off.
And I became happier,
and happier, and happier.
And all of a sudden,
I found myself
giving birth to this
amazing project that
was about the healing
of the planet.
My whole life was changed by
this driving off the cliff.
And having this
experience opened up
a whole new world for me.
And it's brought incredible
riches into my life
that I couldn't possibly ever
have dreamed of or imagined.
My whole vision as a film maker
from this very narrow focus
has moved into a more
global focus, Rumi, being
a Sufi mystic, who,
in his lifetime,
promoted world peace, tolerance
for different religions.
A quote from Rumi, "I am neither
Muslim, Christian, Buddhist,
or a Jew.
I belong to the beloved."
Working with the Rumi
material certainly
has expanded my
vision of the world
and given me fire
and passion to really
make a difference in the
world and to touch the minds
and hearts of many people,
and in keeping with Rumi's
philosophy, encourage tolerance
of people's differences
and to make a difference
with the ecological crises
on the planet.
And so I just feel like
this whole soul story
has been about
moving from living
my life in a very small
container to living
my life in an ocean of love.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In 1987, I was a
ranger company commander,
a special operations
infantryman.
And I had been selected by
the Department of the Army
to take my company, 235
men, into the Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordan
to train Jordanian
Rangers in close combat and
other aspects of warfare.
I was a third-generation
army officer.
I had been raised to be
a soldier by my father.
There was nothing else
in my life that I knew.
I had spent, at this
juncture, 13 years
of my life studying art and
science of taking human life.
I was very good at what I did.
I was very happy about
what I was doing.
And then all of a sudden,
while on a training exercise,
a Jordanian machine
gun shifted fire.
And a machine gun bullet
traveling at roughly 2,832 feet
per second struck me
right above my right eye,
and lodged into
my Kevlar helmet,
and knocked me unconscious for
a period of about 45 minutes.
And it was during that
time, during that 45 minutes
when I was no longer connected
to the conscious world,
that I received a visitation.
Something came to me-- an
angel, an entity, a phantom,
an energy, a ghost, a spirit,
whatever you want to call it,
whatever you're
comfortable with.
It came to me.
And in the darkness
of my mind, there
in the ethereal world in which
I was now part, it said to me,
you have chosen the
wrong path in life.
You are to choose a new path.
You are to choose
the path of peace.
You are to teach peace.
I had a belief now.
As a result of
this gunshot wound,
I had a belief that
there was something more
than the physical.
After I came back from
the deserts of Jordan,
I left the ranger battalion.
And I was recruited into
a special access program.
I was recruited to become
what the Department of Defense
called a remote viewer.
And remote viewing,
by definition
of the Department of Defense,
is the learned ability
to transcend time and space
to view persons, places,
or things remote
in time and space
and to gather and report
intelligence information
on the same.
And so I began my training
process as a remote viewer
in the--
operating in the service of
the United States government.
But throughout all of
that, a transformation
was unfolding in me each
day that I came to work.
Each day, I was recognizing
the significance
of what I was involved
in, and understanding
that, this great tool, this
great gift, this great ability
within each one of
us had to be further
developed, and harvested,
and trained into the youth
of our planet, and
into the rest of us,
so that we could change the
outcome of human destiny
in some way.
The truth of that, the purity
of that rang home to me.
And when that occurred,
then I made the decision
that I had to violate
a security oath
and that I had to tell this
story about what I was involved
in, that I had to teach the rest
of humanity what it was that I
had learned as a result
of this gunshot wound,
as a result of my training
as a remote viewer.
And so in exposing this
and in telling this story
and bringing this
out of the confines
of the military
intelligence community
and bringing it out to be
taught at places like Omega,
to be taught all over the
world, which is what we do now,
there were tremendous
repercussions.
And there was a tremendous
price to be paid.
The lives of my family
members were threatened.
And there were attempts
made on my life.
And ultimately, I was
court-martialed and given
an other than
honorable discharge
after 18 years of service and
three generations of service
to this country because I
told the truth about something
that I was involved in.
I told the truth to bring
it out so that all of us
could benefit from
my experience,
from my transformation,
and from what I had learned
in the darkness of the matrix.
In 1995, I resigned
my commission.
And I spent about a year just
studying, and researching,
and meditating, and
praying about what
it was that I was involved in.
I had made a series of
decisions that ended something
that was very promising.
And now I find myself
leaving under other
than honorable
conditions and ending
all of this, family
falling apart,
and me, very concerned about
what it was that I was supposed
to do with the rest of my life.
I made a decision
to write a book
and tell a story about
what I was involved in,
because I believed that this
gift was something that could
help change the outcome
of human destiny
if everyone could learn it.
It was something that could
help us find a cure for AIDS.
help us find a cure for cancer.
It could be employed
in scientific research
and development, in
support of a medical model,
and a law enforcement, model,
and countless other places,
and understanding
that each of us
must define what our personal
mythology will be regarding
this, but that its potential
to benefit humankind
was unlimited.
My life began falling
apart because I
began struggling between
this new-found awakening
and my attempts to try
to explain to my family
what it was that I
was going through.
And my wife asked me to
seek professional help
and counseling about what
was transpiring with me.
She was not comfortable
with this transformation
exactly as it was unfolding.
And I, of course,
on the other hand,
was not comfortable with
it either, but I began to--
I was recognizing that there was
something significant about it,
and something good
and positive about it,
but just hadn't yet been able
to grasp it and fully understand
it.
So that began a rift
between my wife and I
about my failure to follow
through with her request.
There are probably a lot of
people listening that think,
gunshot wound to the head,
there is some soft tissue damage
and probably something
electrochemical going on there.
But I assure you,
that was not the case.
And so it was tough for me
to try to find some place
to be some sanctuary.
My family was my sanctuary.
My career was my sanctuary.
And all of those things began
to peel away from me, my family,
because I was making
decisions that affected them
because I was making a decision
to tell the truth about what
I was involved in.
And that desperately
affected them.
That threatened their lives.
That threatened
their livelihood.
That threatened their sense
of spiritual well-being,
because I was going
in a direction that
was unfamiliar to them.
I held true to my
love for my family.
And my family supported me even
though my first wife Debbie
and I eventually divorced under
very amicable circumstances,
because we loved
each other, but we
recognized that our
lives were going
in two different directions.
I had had a spiritual
awakening and a transformation.
And in a very loving,
supportive way,
she blessed me and
allowed me to go and move
on in a new direction in life.
But I can say to
you, this, that I
had a life that was focused
on the darkness of humanity.
My life was focused on
supporting and building
on all of the negative aspects
of the human condition,
on fear, and anger, and
hatred, and animosity,
and all that that entails.
And as this transformation
has unfolded,
what has become-- what
has happened to me is,
I've become a much
more open, blossomed,
understanding, forgiving,
living a life without judgment,
without condemnation, living
trying to do everything
that I can do each
day in my life
to feed the positive
conditions, positive aspects
of the human
condition, not trying
to feed fear and anger because
I'm upset by what happened
to me or I don't feel it was
fair that something happened
over here, but by living
my life in support
of the positive, the
love, and the compassion,
and the understanding,
and always focusing
my energy in that direction
and not in the other.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My name is Jason
[? Hooper. ?] And this is
my story.
One of the most
painful times was
that the one woman
who, to this day,
I still think
about as could have
been the person for
me, my soul mate,
or whatever you want to say--
we were at the height
of our relationship.
But some kind of--
some kind of an
internal alarm went off.
And I knew I had to leave
her and go to a new city.
I was living in New York City.
And I had finally come
to love the place,
but I felt like I wanted to
be outside, and seek something
more.
Suddenly the "Omega"
catalog came to my door.
I saw this little drawing about
becoming a community member
and joining the staff,
so I decided to.
It gave me six months to not
worry about food and shelter.
And part of the compensation
for working here
was you were able
to take a workshop.
And I thought, which yoga
workshop would I take,
and didn't really pay
attention to too much else.
But then I thought
one night, I kind of
owed it to myself to see
just what else was there,
just in case.
And then it came upon
Coordinate Remote Viewing
with David Morehouse.
And in there, he
guaranteed to teach you
a scientific protocol
used by the CIA
to transcend time and space.
This guy was going to teach me
So one thing that happened
to me in the first class
was, we do what's called an open
search inward where you go down
the timeline of your own soul
and you see why you're here,
among other things.
And that a big thing for me.
I should tell you
that before this,
I really didn't talk much for
the first 25 years of my life.
And it was a big challenge
for me to connect to people.
And now, here I am
a year later back
on the Omega Campus with David
helping people in that way.
And it's a challenge
for me every time I
get up in front of
the room, but it's
humbling to see what people
are willing to go through.
So now, with the classes,
I help find, select,
and develop the videos and
the audiovisual portion
of the class so
it becomes as much
of a rich experience
for them as possible.
So when they go somewhere
distant in time and space,
we can give them
as much information
as possible for where they've
been, and justification to it,
for having experiencing
what they were experiencing.
Also I lead moving
meditation in the mornings
and some small yoga
practice, gentle yoga,
depending on where they are.
So it's a constant challenge
for me personally, day to day,
because, here I am, someone
who, their entire life,
was internal and introverted
having to express and open
up people physically,
when I, for 25 years,
was very uncomfortable
with physical contact.
And it's just to be with them
and help them experience,
be open to and accept who they
are, no matter what that is,
and to understand that
they are part of a family
when they come to these classes.
And I protect them fiercely.
And these people are
very important to me.
And anyone that comes in
is treated the same way.
I love them very much.
I had been asking
myself for years,
and that I wanted an honest open
direct experience with life,
but what I found was that I
needed to really challenge
myself and share what
I'd been through,
because I had put myself through
personal hells for a few years
before that.
I had to go through leaving
the one woman who, to this day,
I still think about
to be here now,
and to be able to
have experienced
what I did since that day to
allow myself to share this
with the students in class,
and with people I meet,
and whoever is open
to it, to allow
them to be open to their
version of that story.
Because it has helped, I think.
People have thanked me
for when I tell them
about this or about
other things like it,
because there have
been quite a few.
But that, I think that was
the most painful thing,
because anytime I'm alone and
walking the street or even
with someone, I kind of hope
to see her turn the corner.
Every day, I think
of her every day.
But I still know the
decision was right,
because what I'm doing now is
important on a scale that's
beyond me.
And I know that's
why I'm really here.
[MUSIC PLAYING]